# INTecplotLib
A library with utilities of all things TecPlot. This is a work in progress.


SUMMARY

This is a library intended to include all my codes related to AMTEC's TecPlot.
It is a small but growing collection of tools primarily meant to:

1. Read and manipulate files that were generated by or intended to be read by
TecPlot and/or preplot (its companion binary file converter). This includes
other "components" of a TecPlot-readable file, like "geometry" and "text"
objects, for example.

2. Generate TecPlot-readable files with multiple zones.

3. Manage and manipulate TecPlot data "zones" as data-objects that can be
read dynamically as needed.


MOTIVATION (and a personal perspective)

The motivation behind creating this library was sparked from the popularity
of TecPlot, and by the need to be able to (primarily) read files that were
generated with the intention that data objects be visualized by TecPlot.

Unfortunately, in spite of its maturity as a software product, its popularity
in the scientific community and its extremely wide and versatile functionality,
TecPlot remains un-suitable for high-performance computing and visualization
of very large datasets. The poor choice of using an internal binary format
for compact data-storage of large datasets instead of something more versatile,
such as the HDF5 data format, has not been addressed to modernize the software.
As a result, the present HDF5 dataset reader that is shipped with TecPlot is
an un-documented orphan "add-on" and is largely un-usable. Some competing, open
source software packages, such as ParaView, are trying to address these issues
with limited success. As a result, TecPlot remains the "de facto" visualization
package in academia and industry today.

It is possible to author an add-on that is customizable to a particular data
format that a high-end and demanding user desires. In this way, versatile
data management can be performed for selectively visualizing data in dettached
regions of a particular zone. This versatility is something that I have not
encountered in a software package, open or closed source, and authoring such
a package is certainly a difficult task that requires understanding how TecPlot
add-ons interact with the software, engineering the data-reading and managemnt
procedures, and creating an appropriate graphical UI. Some meta-data creation
would also be necessary to address high-performance visualization concerns. The
desired result would be to simply feed data to TecPlot such that they can be
visualized, and more importantly annotated, for use in document publication.

In addition to needing a dynamic data-reader for TecPlot zone objects for use
in add-ons, querying and further manipulating existing files is also a target
application this library is trying to address.


ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONALITY

A summary of special features of this library will be included at a later time.


LIMITATIONS

This library is not, at present, trageting .plt (native TecPlot binary) files.
For this functionality look at this repository:
https://github.com/tuxication/tecplot-binary-read


IN 2017/06/28
